---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

A code of conduct document ultimately provides a way to codify procedures and rules of being a contributor to a certain open source project (or even closed source projects, though this would most be shown in a different type of document or way). It ultimately prevents higher-level people from abusing their powers by giving them a framework in which they should moderate activity on their open source project, and gives everyone else clear guardrails in what is and is not appropriate activity to do online.

Furthermore, some projects tend to want to try and create a productive and nonproblematic project culture by creating a set of values that are less hard rules and more of proper etiquette when interacting with each other. For example, the Go language project has a [code of conduct](https://go.dev/conduct) that explicitly starts with "Gopher Values" to provide some etiquette pointers to contributors of the Go project. These rules were seemingly made in reflection of past experiences for Googlers contributing and primarily maintaining the project (as this is a Google project after all and Google actually became a lot worldwide as they grew), as well as the fact that people don't act the same when they do not see a physical representation of a person. In particular, the values include a point to be patient, acknowledging that people might come from different places around the world and different environments growing up, and as such, people may had developed a vernacular that might be understood in their local population, but not in the greater global community. This is something that gets pointed to a lot in [How to Drive Consensus and Transparency Within Open Source Communities](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZYwTDNA3Uac), as the speakers talk about how something that might be an expression for "let's release this" or "let's implement this" in American English might sound kind of violent. 

One thing that is kind of interesting is that the Go language project code of conduct is actually based off of the [Contributor Covenant](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/code-of-conduct). In my opinion, this code of conduct is a good starting off point for a new open source project, where the owner or leadership of the project might want some sort of ruling framework to go off of, but the enforcement component doesn't really scale up well with a large project like the Go language. For one, the Contributor Covenant's code of conduct suggests reporting unacceptable behavior an email for appropriate response and action. However, given the size of the Go language project, reusing this language shown in the Contributor Covenant would result in way too many issues that could otherwise be resolved by "address[ing] the behavior directly with those involved" (as the Go language code of conduct suggests). It also helps that the Go language is trying to cultivate a positive developer culture, so developers would more likely be able to detect negative behavior and be more incentivized to resolve the issue without getting higher management involved. 

I also find it interesting that the Go code of conducts gives people who want to report an issue two different avenues to go off of in terms of reporting problematic behavior (one with the Go project stewards and one with Google, the primary company running the Go project), which might seem like a legal copy, but can also be useful in the event of a very abusive leadership team. I also find the fact that reports are not granted a response or an action (inclusive or) kind of interesting, as I am sure that troll reports and/or reports fueled by vendetta do happen, and the fact that ultimately, this code of conduct is more to build a positive work culture, and not just punish people (as shown by the mention that the people responsible for moderation will contact the accused to hear their side of the story before they take any action).



<!-- As I was looking more into the the different code of conducts, one particular and significant aviation accident occurred--the American Airlines crash in Washington DC.  -->
